Features of LPC2129   
-------------------- 
1. ARM7TDMI-S basedhigh performance 32 bit RISC microcontroller with THUMB extensions 

  ARM7-family version 
  T   -Thumb Instructions  
  D   -hardware Debugger 
  M   -Multiplier and accummulator unit         
  I   -fast Interupts
  S   -Synthesis     process of converting programming description into network of logic gates is called synthesis

2. 256KB ownchip Flash ROM within sysytem programming(ISP) and IN Application Programming(IAP)
   ISP: that for dumbing hex files there is no need to remove microcontroller from target board and do the firmware(microcontroller programing) 
        so now aa days programs can be done on the target board itself withour removing microcontroller from target.

   IAP: processor can write into flash memory 
         if directly allowed processor can write programmer may delete he code causing problems

3. 16KB RAM
4. Vectored Interupts Controller(VIC) with configurable priorites and vector addresses
5. Two UART(UART0 and UART1)
6. I2C serial Interface
7.2 SPI serial Interfcae(SPI0 and SPI1)
8. Two timers(7 capture/compare channels(timer0 and timer1))
9. PWM unit with upto 6PWM outputs

5. Two UART
    .for seriall communication its used
    .one of the oldest protocol companies used for serial communication.
    .one easy method for comunication
    eg: biometric sensor project,RFID,GPS models
    .Hardware connection is simple

6. I2C Inter integrated circuit
   I2c inbuild also called I2C peripheral we can communicate with external display,emory chip...
    eg:pressure sensor
    Both i2c and spi are both available in controller and we can use both compatible sensors.

    SPI->only spi is there can use spi compatible sensors only
    memory card is only spi compatible.

7. 2 SPI serial peripheral interface

8. It has 2 timers(timer0 and timer1)
   main purpose of using interupt is delay generation.
   eg: you can use interupt for 1 sec for processor.
   while designing Os timer ,timer wll play major role time slice in OS is for every tick.OS will executes tasks parallely.

   multitasking inbuilt.Time slice depends on timer.

9. Pulse width modulation (PWM)
    headlight display backlight in day time full intesity when turn on headlight interior will be dim.
    when turn on light the led will be reduced intensity
    to control speed of dc motor

10. Four channel ADC
    10 bit ADC with conversion time as low as 2.4Ms (microseconds)
    eg:sensor input
       if using sensor we need to use adc sensor gives input analog only Microcontroller only understands Digital.

       sensor ->ADC ->MC
    10 bit is output it is converted to 10bit digital output
    10 bit is called resolution of ADC.

11. Two interconncected CAN  interfaces with advanced acceptance filter.
    Controller area network
    Robert Bosch for automotive but now marine aviation robotics...
    CAN is used in every car.
    eg  airbag ,wipers,power machine ...

12. Real time Clock
    In our project if we need time and data RTC is used

13. Watch Dog timer
    role is reseting the contrller .Only this can reset the processor.
    if robot send to space we cannot reset manually so watch dog timer so it can be done to reset

14. General purpose IO pins
    total 46 IO pins

15. CPU clock upto 60MHz

16. Onchip Crystal oscillator
 
17. On chip PLL(phased lock loop)

18. two low power modes idle and power down

19. processor wakeup from power down mode via external interupt



16. 12 mhz oscillator generates 12x10^6 oscillation .sec
    the oscillator will convert every oscillation into clk pulses
    also give 12Mhz to PLL then the 12x5=60MHz
    60MHz is given to processor
    60x10^6 clk pulses in 1 sec
    cannot increase more than 60Mhz


you cannot run linux/windows on LPC2129
we can run mobiles controller now a days mobile

RTOS
----
real time OS
we cannot rin window/linuz because it need higher frequency need GHz but LPC2129 has only 60MHz
Need also larger memory space,LPC2129 has low memory space 20+GB occupied by windows OS

MPU memory protection unit has to be there to run OS on LPC2129 but it not there but above all RTOS doesnt care about anything RTOS can be runned on any controller
4KB also it can be instaled

GUI will not work on LPC2129
cockpit also use RTOS siwtches all are RTOS GUI is not there.
